h1. Using Cucumber with Java

This directory contains code to demonstrate how Cucumber can be used to develop Java code.
You need JRuby 1.1.3 or higher installed and JRuby's bin directory on your PATH.

h2. Installing required gems

jruby -S gem install aslakhellesoy-cucumber
jruby -S gem install diff-lcs

h2. Running the scenarios

Open a shell in this directory (java) and execute the following command:

<pre><code>
jruby -S rake features
</code></pre>

This will compile the java code and package it in a jar file, and then run Cucumber against
that code.

There is a deliberate error. See if you can fix it!

h2. Background and Credits

Cucumber is a rewrite of RSpec's "Story runner", which was originally written by Dan North. Dan's original
implementation required that stories be written in Ruby. Shortly after, David Chelimsky added 
"plain text":http://blog.davidchelimsky.net/articles/2007/10/21/story-runner-in-plain-english support.

This brought executable stories a little closer to non-technical users, which is one of the target audiences
for this kind of tool.

However, the RSpec Story runner has several shortcomings which is rather common for tools that move into new territory.
Some of the biggest problems with it are:

* Hard to get started with. A special "all.rb" file must be written before it can be used.
* No out of the box Rake support, which puts a lot of people off.
* No i18n, so if you want to write stories in a different language than English you're out of luck.
* Poor error reporting. No way to know on what line a plain text story failed during execution or parsing.
* Limited colouring of output.
* No simple way to execute only one scenario.
* No command line tool to run stories.

While all of this could have been fixed in the existing codebase, I figured it would be easier to do a rewrite from scratch.
I also had some ideas for extensions of the story grammar, so I decided to use "Treetop":http://treetop.rubyforge.org/
and base it on a proper "grammar":http://github.com/aslakhellesoy/cucumber/tree/master/lib/cucumber/treetop_parser/feature.treetop.erb

Cucumber addresses all of the shortcomings of RSpec's Story runner. If the community likes it, we'll consider phasing out
the RSpec story runner.

The term "Feature" has been adopted in favour of "Story" because I believe it is a more appropriate term. A feature's scenarios
typically increases over time - fed by several user stories.
